#+STARTUP: showall indent
#+STARTUP: hidestars
#+BEGIN_HTML
---
layout: post
title: "UCL Academic Staff Research Interests"
date: 2016-04-13
comments: true
archive: true
notes: true
tags: notes
excerpt: UCL Academic Staff Research Interests
---
#+END_HTML

Academic Staff Research Interests

This section gives a very brief summary of the research interests of
Computer Science (and associated) staff. Please follow the links to
staff home pages for more comprehensive information.

*Lourdes Agapito*

Computer Vision, 3D Reconstruction from Video, Non-Rigid
Reconstruction, Structure from Motion, Optical Flow

*Danny Alexander*

Image processing, pattern recognition and computer vision; medical
imaging and medical image processing, magnetic resonance imaging and
diffusion imaging; image reconstruction, optimisation and inverse
problems.

*Jade Alglave*

Concurrency, Semantics, Verification

*Simon Arridge*

Medical imaging; image processing and reconstruction, particularly
medical applications and numerical methods for solving ill-posed
inverse problems; scale space and shape descriptors; unsupervised
pattern recognition; state space estimation methods for dynamical
imaging.

*Tomaso Aste*

Financial networks, scaling and multifractality in financial signals,
econophysics, information filtering, complex systems, data analytics,
statistical modeling.

*David Barber*

Large-scale information processing; probabilistic inference and
accurate approximate inference techniques; machine learning and
information processing in both natural and artificial systems.

*Nadia Berthouze*

Human-Computer Interaction; affective computing; non-verbal
communication; affective posture recognition; cross-cultural studies;
personalized information systems; information retrieval; multimodal
user interfaces.

*Marta Betcke*

Numerical solution of inverse problems; Tomographic image
reconstruction; Compressed Sensing; Sparsity and Compression. Novel
imaging technologies/applications: experimental design and
reconstruction problem. Applied Harmonic Analysis.

*Sue Black*

Software development and software quality; social media, especially
Twitter; social media and software engineering; public engagement and
understanding of technology and science; women in computing and
science; computer science education; Bletchley Park and computing
history.

*Ann Blandford*

Human–Computer Interaction; interaction design; human error;
resilience; sensemaking; information interaction; interactive medical
devices; interactive systems in healthcare; usability of digital
libraries; understanding systems design in the context of work;
socio-technical systems design; methods for designing and evaluating
interactive systems.

*Gabriel Brostow*

Computer vision, computer animation, computational photography, motion
perception; data-driven animation, human computer interaction (HCI)
for authoring of graphics and visual content, application of vision
and pattern recognition to other domains (architecture, special
effects, health, emergency response).

*James Brotherston*

Applications of mathematical logic to program verification and other
resource problems; cyclic proof and inductive theorem proving; proof
theory; model theory; computability/complexity theory; automated
reasoning.

*Duncan Brumby*

Human-Computer Interaction: General interests are in understanding the
strategies that people adopt for everyday tasks, such as when
multitasking or searching for information on the web.

*Kevin Bryson*

Bioinformatics and systems biology: analysis and modelling of genomes,
transcriptomes, biological networks and protein structure. I have a
particular interest in two clinically relevant systems: streptococcus
pneumoniae and polyglutamine expansion diseases such as Huntington’s
Disease.

*Fabio Caccioli*

Systemic risk, Financial networks, Stability of risk measures, Complex
systems, Statistical mechanics.

*Licia Capra*

Software engineering for mobile computing; middleware for mobile and
distributed systems; coordination of mobile services; trust models and
management.

*Christopher Clack*

Financial Computing and Quantitative Finance; Intelligent Systems in
Finance; portfolio optimisation; stock selection; market modelling;
risk; evolutionary computing; genetic algorithms and genetic
programming; adaptive systems; functional programming.

*David Clark*

Program and model analysis; language based security; applications of
information theory to program analysis and software engineering;
quantified information flow (QIF); semantics based malware detection;
slicing and dependence analysis; software testing.

*Byron Cook*

program verification, program logics, program analysis, termination
proving, programming languages, theorem proving, constraint solving,
biological systems

*Nicolas Courtois*

Applied Cryptography, crypto currency/bitcoin, cryptanalysis,
cryptography engineering

*Anna Cox*

How humans learn to interact with computer systems (i.e. from
instructions, exploration, etc); what people learn from these
interactions (i.e. the content of their mental models); understanding
information seeking and interactive search; human error; understanding
immersion; computational modelling of HCI.

*Ingemar Cox*

Multimedia, digital rights management, digital watermarking, content
identification, relevance feedback, e-commerce, computer vision,
information retrieval.

*George Danezis*

Computer security, privacy enhancing technologies, anonymity systems,
peer-to-peer system security, censorship circumvention, applications
of machine learning to security, critical infrastructure security,
security for smart cities, cryptographic infrastructures and
compilers.

*Emiliano De Cristafaro*

Security, Privacy and Applied Cryptography.

*Christophe Dessimoz*

Bioinformatics, genomics, evolution, scientific computing,
mathematical modelling, computational statistics.

*John Dowell*

User interfaces, especially collaborative learning systems; multimodal
systems; information retrieval systems; decision support systems; a
cognitive design perspective on the development processes and models
used to create user interfaces.

*Ivana Drobnjak*

Mathematical and Computational Modelling, MRI, Medical Image
Computing, Diffusion MRI, Microstructure Imaging, Computational
Modelling.

*Wolfgang Emmerich*

Software engineering principles, methods, tools and notations for
middleware-based distributed and mobile software architectures.

*Anthony Finkelstein*

Requirements engineering; software processes and workflow; document
management; management of semi-structured, heterogeneous and
inconsistent information; change management; software development
tools and environments.

*Guido Germano*

Computational finance, computational methods in statistical mechanics,
computer simulation of complex systems, numerical methods for
stochastic processes, agent-based models, scientific computing,
high-performance computing.

*Nicolas Gold*

Computer systems for live music performance; computational musicology
and music analysis; search-based approaches to sound synthesis; other
topics in digital music; digital humanities; service-oriented
software; program comprehension; source-code analysis

*Denise Gorse*

Novel methods for global minimisation (chaperone-based techniques for
finding nativelike states of heteropolymer energy functions, smoothing
transformations for avoiding local minima in neural network training);
bioinformatics (methods for predicting local protein structure,
repeating motifs, interface regions in multi-subunit complexes);
hardware-realisable stochastic neural networks (spike-based stochastic
computing using the pRAM model, applications in pattern recognition
and control).

*Lewis Griffin*

Machine vision; human vision; colour vision; machine learning;
ecological optics; medical image analysis; multi-dimensional density
and mode estimation; computational neuroanatomy.

*Jens Groth*

Cryptography, digital signatures, public-key encryption, anonymity,
internet voting, zero-knowledge proofs, multi-party computation.

*Stephen Hailes*

Mobile systems at all levels from ad hoc routing protocols through to
higher layer issues; security, especially of mobile systems but also
more generally; multimedia, in particular networked animation at
present.

*Mark Handley*

Internet architecture; congestion control for high-speed, and its
multimedia applications; internet routing; IP multicast; architectural
mechanisms to limit denial-of-service attacks.

*Mark Harman*

Search based softward engineering (SBSE), Program slicing, Program
analysis, Software testing, Software measurement, Software metrics,
Genetic algorithms.

*Dave Hawkes*

Image registration; building statistical and anatomical models from
image data; image guided interventions; CT reconstruction and
application areas in neurosurgery; ENT surgery; oncology and
orthopaedics.

*Mark Herbster*

Machine learning theory (online algorithms); support vector machines;
neural networks; evolutionary algorithms; machine learning applied to
bioinformatics.

*Robin Hirsch*

Temporal and modal logics; algebraic logic; relation algebra; temporal
databases; planning; complexity; model theory; game theory; genetic
algorithms.

*Tony Hunter*

Knowledge representation and reasoning; argumentation; handling
inconsistency in information; applications in decision-support and in
technologies for understanding and reasoning with information in
natural language.

*David Jones*

Protein structure prediction and analysis; simulations of protein
folding; hidden Markov Models; transmembrane protein analysis; machine
learning applications in bioinformatics; microarray data analysis; de
novo protein design methodology and genome analysis, including the
application of intelligent software agents.

*Simon Julier*

Nonlinear estimation algorithms for robust tracking and distributed
fusion of disparate information sources; map building and
localisation; mobile mixed reality systems; agile and context-aware
information displays; wearable computers.

*Brad Karp*

Routing (particularly geographic routing) for sensor networks, other
multi-hop wireless networks and the internet; internet worm defence,
including automated worm signature generation; internet-based
distributed systems, including those based on Distributed Hash Tables
(DHTs); distributed storage for sensor networks.

*Peter Kirstein*

Computer networks; networked multimedia; international data network
activities; document services; security; active networks; wireless
networks; voice/IP, mobile networks.

*Jens Krinke*

Program analysis, program slicing and dependence analysis; clone
detection and code provenance; automatic bug detection; taint analysis
and information flow control for realistic systems; mining software
repositories.

*Emmanuel Letier*

Requirements engineering; system behaviour modelling and analysis
using goals, scenarios, and state-machines; handling non-functional
requirements and supporting decision making during requirements
engineering and software design.

*Zhaoping Li*

Computational/experimental vision in humans or biological vision,
segmentation and object recognition, Sensory signal encoding and
decoding, nonlinear neural dynamics, control theory and systems,
signal processing, neural networks.

*Nicolai Marquardt*

Ubiquitous computing; human-computer interaction; digital fabrication
and prototyping; novel user interfaces; gestural interaction with
large interactive surfaces; proxemic interactions; sensor-based
systems; tangible and physical user interfaces; information
visualisation; natural user interfaces; prototyping toolkits

*Paul Marshall*

Interaction design, embodied interaction interaction and tangible
interfaces, technologies for face-to-face collaboration, design of
technologies to fit specific physical contexts, extended cognition and
perception.

*Sarah Meiklejohn*

Cryptography; Computer security; Privacy; Zero-Knowledge Proofs;
Virtual currencies; Cryptographic Compilers.

*Niloy Mitra*

Geometry processing; symmetry detection; shape analysis; 3D geometry
acquisition both for indoor and outdoor scenes; computer graphics;
analysis of 3D model collections; image understanding; interaction
design; 3D modeling systems; fabrication-aware design.

*Juan Navarro Perez*

Separation logic, automated reasoning, software verification, and
program analysis. Formal methods and applications of logic.

*Peter O'Hearn*

Mathematical and philosophical logic; program logic and semantics;
program analysis; verification; operating systems.

*Massimiliano Pontil*

Machine learning theory, pattern recognition and statistics; machine
learning problems arising in computational vision, natural language
processing and bioinformatics.

*Natasa Przulj*

Molecular and clinical data integration for patient stratification,
bio-marker discovery, drug re-purposing, disease re-classification;
Data analytics, modeling, fusion, dynamics, applied to clinical,
molecular and biological data; Algorithms for uncovering molecular
mechanisms of disease from systems-level “omics” data; Molecular
networks: interactome evolution, dynamics, alignment, protein function
prediction; Large-scale economic data analysis, fusion and modeling
the dynamics of economic systems; Computational graph theory,
algorithms, models.

*Sebastian Riedel*

Natural Language Processing; Machine Learning; Joint/Holistic
Processing; Information Extraction; Graphical Models; Scaling up
Inference; Learning from Weak Supervision; Probabilistic Programming
and Statistical Relational Learning; Mining Scientific Literature.

*Yvonne Rogers*

Human-Computer interaction, interaction design, ubiquitous computing,
behavioural change, interactivity and representations, external
cognition, technology-enhanced learning, novel interfaces

*M. Angela Sasse*

Human-centred technology design; human-centred design of novel
communications and multimedia technologies (fourth generation mobile
applications and services, human-centred Quality of Service (QoS),
measuring perception and impact of audio and video quality,
eyetracking and physiological measurements); usability and
effectiveness of security systems (authentication systems, biometrics,
user education and training, security in large distributed
environments).

*Simone Severini*

Discrete Applied Mathematics, Combinatorics, Classical and Quantum
Information Theory, Analysis of Data & Complex Network

*John Shawe-Taylor*

Machine learning theory, pattern analysis and statistics, kernel
methods, support vector machines, computer vision, natural language
processing, neuroscience and bioinformatics.

*Alexandra Silva*

Logic, semantics and design of programming languages, coalgebra,
verification, program correctness, automated reasoning.

*Mel Slater*

Computer graphics and virtual reality: the computer graphics research
is concerned mostly with real-time methods for global illumination;
the virtual reality research focuses understanding and improving
people’s experience in virtual reality through focus on their sense of
presence. An important application area is to use virtual reality in
the context of psychological therapy.

*Srini Srinivasan*

Haptics, robotics, virtual environments, teleoperation.

*Anthony Steed*

Virtual reality and 3D user interfaces; collaborative virtual
environments and relationship to ubiquitous systems; real-time 3D
graphics for large models; mixed-reality and augmented-reality
systems.

*Danail Stoyanov*

Surgical Vision, Robotic Assisted Surgery, Computer Assisted
Interventions, Medical Image Computing, Surgical Skills Understanding
and Analysis.

*Gianluca Stringhini*

Computer Security, Cybercrime measurement, Web Security, Social
Network Security, Malware Analysis, Botnet Mitigation, Detection of
targeted attacks and Insider Threats.

*Phil Treleaven*

Artificial intelligence; 3D Body Scanning; financial and economic
forecasting; entrepreneurship.

*Jun Wang*

Information retrieval and web search; collaborative filtering and
recommender systems and data mining; web economy and online
advertising; social 'the wisdom of crowds' approaches for content
understanding, organisation, and retrieval; peer-to-peer information
retrieval and filtering; multimedia content analysis, indexing and
retrieval.

*Tim Weyrich*

Appearance acquisition and 3D reconstruction; realistic reflectance
models for computer graphics; point-based graphics; interactive
applications in art and cultural heritage preservation

*Ifat Yasin*

Auditory Scene Analysis: streaming, binding, object
recognition. Monaural/binaural and spatial hearing in real and virtual
environments. Computational models of the human auditory
system. Audio-visual integration. Auditory nonlinear processes in
normal and impaired hearing. Applications to automatic
speech-recognition systems, assistive hearing technology.

*Emine Yilmaz*

Information retrieval; web science; web search; data mining;
applications of machine learning

*Shi Zhou*

Internet topology, characterisation and modelling of complex
telecommunications networks, network security, detection of network
anomalies
